FGAP documentation (#38422)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/release_notes/topics/26_2_0.adoc

For information on how to upgrade from the legacy token exchange used in previous {project_name} versions, see the link:{upgradingguide_link}[{upgradingguide_name}].

= Supported Fine-Grained Admin Permissions

This release introduces a new supported version of Fine-Grained Admin Permissions: V2, providing enhanced flexibility and control over administrative access within realms. With this feature, administrators can define permissions for administering users, groups, clients, and roles without relying on broad administrative roles. There are some key points:

* *Centralized Admin Console Management* - New `Permissions` section was introduced to allow management from a single place without having to navigate to different places in the administration console. 
* *Resource-Specific and Global Permissions* – Permissions can be defined for individual resources (e.g., specific users or groups),  or entire resource types (e.g., all users or all groups).

> * *Explicit Operation Scoping* – Permissions are now independent, removing hidden dependencies between operations. Admins must assign each scope explicitly, making it easier to see what is granted without needing prior knowledge of implicit relationships.

Reviewer: I would add:

* Improved manageability experience so that administrators can more easily search and evaluate permissions when building an permission model for realm resources

Perhaps we should also highlight that v2 brings the same level of access control over realm resources so people should not expect anything different than what is there in v1. However, with more flexibility to support additional realm resource types and scopes.

For information on how to upgrade from the legacy token exchange used in previous {project_name} versions, see the link:{upgradingguide_link}[{upgradingguide_name}].

= Supported Fine-Grained Admin Permissions

> This release introduces support for a new version of Fine-Grained Admin Permissions. Version 2 (V2) provides enhanced flexibility and control over administrative access within realms. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release introduces support for a new version of fine-grained admin permissions. Version 2 (V2) provides enhanced flexibility and control over administrative access within realms. 
```

With this feature, administrators can define permissions for administering users, groups, clients, and roles without relying on broad administrative roles. V2 offers the same level of access control over realm resources as the previous version, with plans to extend its capabilities in future versions. Some key points follow:

* *Centralized Admin Console Management* - New *Permissions* section was introduced to allow management from a single place without having to navigate to different places in the Admin Console. 
* *Improved manageability* - Administrators can more easily search and evaluate permissions when building a permission model for realm resources.

> * *Resource-Specific and Global Permissions* – Permissions can be defined for individual resources (such as, specific users or groups),  or entire resource types (such as., all users or all groups).

Reviewer 2: Yes, such as does not need a comma.  If you use for example, a comma is okay.

For information on how to upgrade from the legacy token exchange used in previous {project_name} versions, see the link:{upgradingguide_link}[{upgradingguide_name}].

= Supported Fine-Grained Admin Permissions

> This release introduces a new supported version of Fine-Grained Admin Permissions: V2, providing enhanced flexibility and control over administrative access within realms. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release introduces support for a new version of Fine-Grained Admin Permissions. Version 2 (V2) provides enhanced flexibility and control over administrative access within realms. 
```

> With this feature, administrators can define permissions for administering users, groups, clients, and roles without relying on broad administrative roles. The initial release 
> offers the same level of access control over realm resources as the previous version, with plans to extend its capabilities in future updates. There are some key points:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this feature, administrators can define permissions for administering users, groups, clients, and roles without relying on broad administrative roles. V2 offers the same level of access control over realm resources as the previous version, with plans to extend its capabilities in future versions. Some key points follow:
```

> * *Centralized Admin Console Management* - New `Permissions` section was introduced to allow management from a single place without having to navigate to different places in the administration console. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Centralized Admin Console Management* - New *Permissions* section was introduced to allow management from a single place without having to navigate to different places in the Admin Console. 
```

* *Improved manageability* - Administrators can more easily search and evaluate permissions when building a permission model for realm resources.

> * *Resource-Specific and Global Permissions* – Permissions can be defined for individual resources (e.g., specific users or groups),  or entire resource types (e.g., all users or all groups).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Resource-Specific and Global Permissions* – Permissions can be defined for individual resources (such as, specific users or groups),  or entire resource types (such as., all users or all groups).
```

> * *Explicit Operation Scoping* – Permissions are now independent, removing hidden dependencies between operations. Admins must assign each scope explicitly, making it easier to see what is granted without needing prior knowledge of implicit relationships.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Explicit Operation Scoping* – Permissions are now independent, removing hidden dependencies between operations. Administrators must assign each scope explicitly, making it easier to see what is granted without needing prior knowledge of implicit relationships.
```

* *Per-Realm Enablement* – Fine-Grained Admin Permissions can be enabled on a per-realm basis, allowing greater control over adoption and configuration.

> Read link:{adminguide_finegrained_link}[Fine Grained Admin Permissions] to learn more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details, see link:{adminguide_finegrained_link}[Fine Grained Admin Permissions].
```
